# Risk Management Scenario Analysis and Markowitz Efficient Frontier Portfolio Optimisation
<p align="justify">The use of scenarios in strategic decision making was pioneered by the Royal Dutch/Shell Company during the 1970s. The method is best suited to organizations and industries which are extremely sensitive to external factors beyond their control and where time frames are relatively long. In financial risk management, scenario analysis is commonly used to estimate changes to a portfolio's value in response to an unfavorable event and may be used to examine a theoretical worst-case scenario. Prior to Shell’s scenario analysis introduction, in 1952, an economist named Harry Markowitz wrote his dissertation on “Portfolio Selection”, a paper that contained theories which transformed the landscape of portfolio management. Since then the most important problem in investment has always been to construct a portfolio of assets which takes both return and risk into proper consideration. A set of holdings must be selected that are designed to conform to the investment objectives and the risk appetite. Crucially this risk appetite is not just expressed in terms of volatility or value-at-risk, but rather in terms of the portfolio’s performance in all foreseeable future states of the markets. This project runs various scenario analyses using “The Greeks” as a basis of portfolio Profit and Loss estimation. It then produces and derives the optimisation problem behind MPT, using the cvxopt package to solve for various efficient frontiers on monthly asset returns and their respective covariance matrices. Various constraints are declared on the solver to satisfy specific market conditions. Special portfolios risk-averse and risk-seeking investors might desire are identified and visualised on the frontier.</p>
